<!-- This is generated by make-readme.py do not edit -->
# jqwim -- jq what I mean

A high-level command-line tool for filtering json data. Simpler but less powerful than `jq`.

# Installing

```
pip install git+https://github.com/talwrii/jqwim#egg=jqwim
```

# Examples / Cheat sheet

```
# Search for entries whose field value matches a regular expression)
jsonsource | jqwim --field-name regular-expression

# Show the command line flags we can use to filter daya
jsonsource | jqwim --help

# Show general help
jqwim --help < /dev/null

```

# WARNING: Non-homogenous data

The approach used here may be a little surprising.
For consistency, unix-style command line flags are used for filtering. Now new language needs to be learned.
For convenience and to prevent typing errors, the acceptable flags are derived from the first record.
This, however, can cause unexpected behaviour when records have different keys, or suddenly change.

For settings where strict correctness is important, for example unsupervised running in automated scripts (like cronjobs) the `--spec-file` is provided.
This options specifies a json file that contains a list of acceptable keys.
When use the first time this file is built from the first key.

# Usage

```
usage: make-readme.py [--help] [--spec-file SPEC_FILE]

A limited alternative to jq with a simpler interface.The command line options
depend upon your data source (or --spec-file). Provide sample data when
running --help to see source specific options.

optional arguments:
  --help                Show help output
  --spec-file SPEC_FILE
                        Read specification of json from this file rather than
                        guessing. If this file does not exist create it. This
                        protects one against format changes causing crashes.

```

# Prior work

`jq` is a highly recommeded tool. It provides a *domain specific language* for filtering and transforming `JSON`, for easy use cases it can be rather verbose, however.

`recordstream` is a similar tool to `jq`. For each of learning and easy turning-completeness (I imagine), it uses perl fragments for filtering. This is a complicated trade-off.

There are a number of similar young projects on github.
None of these fit my use cases.
Understandably, lots of these tools are "code dumps" without documentation which can make quickly working out what they do difficult.
There may be other tools that provide very similar functionaly.
Some examples include [jsongrep](https://github.com/terrycojones/jsongrep), [jsongrep](https://github.com/dsc/jsongrep), [jqwim](https://github.com/jsonlines/jqwim), [jku](https://github.com/bjorne/jku).
